src/content/posts/contact-lenses/contacts-lenses.mdx, before:

---
title: Ways to Save on Contact Lenses
slug: contact-lenses
category: Loot Usage
description: How to save money when purchasing contact lenses
date: 2025-11-25T14:00:00.000Z
cover: ./contacts.jpg
tags:
  - contacts
  - lenses
---
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import costcoQuote from 'CostcoQuote.png';
import costcoRebate from 'CostcoRebate.png';
import optiContacts from 'OptiContacts.png';

## Introduction

If you are like me, then you have been paying $10/month for vision insurance and you just realized that your vision insurance benefits resets at the end of the calendar year. If you don't use it, then you just wasted $120 this year for nothing.

For those who have contacts, a year's supply of contact lenses can easily cost hundreds of dollars and if you have special lenses or require dailies, this can cost easily cost more than double that. Yes, there's vision insurance, but they only cover around $120-$130 for contact lenses ($130 in my case w/ 15% discount for any amount above $130).

### Baseline Cost

As an example, I'll use a popular monthly contact lense product, Biofinity CooperVision, for pricing comparison. At Lenscrafters, a years worth of these contacts are normally $62.99 a box of 6 lenses ($251.96 for a year), but thanks to a Black Friday sale, it's $55.59 a box ($221.96 a year). Just to make sure the base pricing is correct, MyEyeDr is selling it for $68.00 a box, so $55.99 sounds like a good base price to compare against.

Also, just to make sure our price comparison is apples-to-apples, [Rakuten](www.rakuten.com/r/ONFIRE15?eeid=28187) has a 4% cashback on Lenscrafters. So our baseline cost for a year's worth of Biofinity CooperVision is *$208.64*

## Level One - FSA

```
Level Stats
Savings:                0-50% Discount
Usage Type:             Online or In-Store
```

If your employer offers you an [FSA](https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/060215/how-flexible-spending-accounts-work.asp) option, consider putting money aside for vision purchases. Even if you have an HSA, you should be eligible to put money into a [Limited Purpose FSA (LPFSA)](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/l/limited-purpose-flexible-spending-arrangement-lpfsa.asp) using pre-tax dollars. It's also very convenient to use because most FSA plans provide a debit card.

### Downsides

FSA is a use-it-or-lose-it benefit, similar to vision insurance. Remember to use up all the funds (or enough to reach the maximum rollover amount, if it has this feature) [before the end of the year (or end of grace period)](https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/111314/how-does-grace-period-work-my-flexible-spending-account-fsa.asp).

### Savings Calculation

Depending on your overall effective marginal tax rate (local + state + federal income tax rate), you could save between 0-50% or even more if your local and state have high income tax rates.

For example, if you are in the 22% federal tax bracket, you live in a locality/state that taxes you 4% overall, and the FICA tax rate is 7.65%, then *you would be saving 33.65%*.

Note, this is combinable with most of the options below.

## Level Two - The "Costco" Discount

```
Level Stats
Savings:                ~35.4% Discount (Lower if no club membership)
Usage Type:             Online or In-Store
```

Many non-big-box optometrists will price match Costco or Sam's Club prices, even if they don't advertise it. They most likely won't even ask you for proof that you have a membership. Although they might not have the exact rebates that Costco advertises, they might offer comparable rebates of their own. This is a quick and easy way to reduce the bill, so make sure you check the pricing from your nearest wholesale club, so you can compare their price match.

### Downsides

It is possible they don't price match, then my recommended approach would be to make sure they print out your prescription so that you can directly buy from your wholesale club. If you don't have a membership, it'll cost you around $50-65 for a membership, so you might still save a little, but it might not be worth the inconvenience.

<Image src={costcoQuote} alt="Costco Quote" width="400" class="inline"/> <Image src={costcoRebate} alt="Costco Rebate" width="326" class="inline"/>

### Savings Calculation

Costco is currently selling this product for $38.87 a box with a $20 mail-in rebate if you buy 4 boxes ($155.48 - $20 = $135.48 for a year). Given you already have a membership, that's a $73.16 savings or 35.4% discount. Nearly free with vision insurance.

## Level Three - Out-Of-Network and Online

```
Level Stats
Savings:                ~33.2% Discount
Usage Type:             Online
```

If you look at your vision insurance, you'll notice that you have an in-network and an out-of-network benefit for contact lenses. The out-of-benefit is usually a reimbursement but for a lower amount ($105 in my case). But the thing is, you can usually find an online retailer that has better pricing than even Costco.

For instance, this is from [ContactsDirect.com](https://www.contactsdirect.com/) and after all the discounts, it ends up being ~$29.79 per box ($119.17). That's $102.79 cheaper than LensCrafters and $16.31 cheaper than Costco. In this case though, Costco is cheaper since most vision insurance plans consider Costco an in-network provider, but if you don't already have a Costco membership, then this option would be cheaper.

This also changes if your contacts are more expensive. For instance, the toric version of these lenses have a price difference of $49.59, in which case, this option is cheaper than Costco.

[OptiContacts](https://www.opticontacts.com/) is an even cheaper option, but you do have to make sure you aren't being bait and switched as you can see in this quote (see screenshot below). A lot of online stores have these extremely high processing fees.

**Pro-Tip:** - Check Rakuten for any cashback for the online site you are using. For instance, currently, [Rakuten has 4% cashback on ContactsDirect.com](www.rakuten.com/r/ONFIRE15?eeid=28187).

<Image src={optiContacts} alt="OptiContacts Quote"/>

### Downsides

One, it does require some research to find the best online pricing, especially with the bait-and-switch tactic mentioned above. Some sites offer different pricing through different links or offer hidden promo codes, so this research could be daunting. To get you started, here are a few online sites to compare against:

| Website | Rakuten? |
|---|---|
| [ContactsDirect.com](https://www.contactsdirect.com/) | Yes |
| [OptiContacts](https://www.opticontacts.com/) | No |
| [EZContacts](https://www.ezcontacts.com/) | Yes |
| [Contact Lens King](https://www.contactlensking.com/) | No |
| [Kits](https://www.kits.com/) | Yes |
| [WebEyeCare](https://webeyecare.com/) | Yes |
| [1-800-Contacts](https://www.1800contacts.com/) | Yes |

**Pro-Tip:** 1-800-Contacts [price matches their competitors, including rebates](https://www.1800contacts.com/best-price-guarantee), which is great because they do have a [torn lense guarantee](https://www.1800contacts.com/best-price-guarantee). It's also possible they might have a better Rakuten cashback than other online competitors.

Two, it does require some time to ship the contacts to you. This only affects you if you have contact lenses that are in-stock most of the time. If you have toric lenses like me, some optimetrists have to special order them anyways.

Lastly, you do have to fill out a reimbursement form from your vision insurance. So similar risks to rebates, where reimbursements can be rejected. I've never had an issue with reimbursements, but there is a chance you'll have to go through some hoops. This also means you will have to pay the full cost upfront while you wait for your reimbursement, which could take a couple of weeks. This could be an advantage because you gain credit card points, but if you are strapped for cash, this could be a significant downside.

### Savings Calculation

Total cost = $119.17 (ContactsDirect) * (0.96 for [Rakuten cashback](www.rakuten.com/r/ONFIRE15?eeid=28187)) + ~$25 (difference between in-network and out-of-network discount)= $139.40

Savings = $208.64 - $139.4 = $69.24 or 33.2% discount

Commit message:

Update Contact Lense Blog Post

src/content/posts/contact-lenses/contacts-lenses.mdx, after:

---
title: Ways to Save on Contact Lenses
slug: contact-lenses
category: Loot Usage
description: How to save money when purchasing contact lenses
date: 2025-11-25T14:00:00.000Z
cover: ./contacts.jpg
tags:
  - contacts
  - lenses
---
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import costcoQuote from 'CostcoQuote.png';
import costcoRebate from 'CostcoRebate.png';
import optiContacts from 'OptiContacts.png';

## Introduction

If you are like me, then you have been paying $10/month for vision insurance and you just realized that your vision insurance benefits resets at the end of the calendar year. If you don't use it, then you just wasted $120 this year for nothing.

For those who have contacts, a year's supply of contact lenses can easily cost hundreds of dollars and if you have special lenses or require dailies, this can cost easily cost more than double that. Yes, there's vision insurance, but they only cover around $120-$130 for contact lenses ($130 in my case w/ 15% discount for any amount above $130).

### Baseline Cost

As an example, I'll use a popular monthly contact lense product, Biofinity CooperVision, for pricing comparison. At Lenscrafters, a years worth of these contacts are normally $62.99 a box of 6 lenses ($251.96 for a year), but thanks to a Black Friday sale, it's $55.59 a box ($221.96 a year). Just to make sure the base pricing is correct, MyEyeDr is selling it for $68.00 a box, so $55.99 sounds like a good base price to compare against.

Also, just to make sure our price comparison is apples-to-apples, [Rakuten](www.rakuten.com/r/ONFIRE15?eeid=28187) has a 4% cashback on Lenscrafters. So our baseline cost for a year's worth of Biofinity CooperVision is *$208.64*

## Level One - FSA

```
Level Stats
Savings:                0-50% Discount
Usage Type:             Online or In-Store
```

If your employer offers you an [FSA](https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/060215/how-flexible-spending-accounts-work.asp) option, consider putting money aside for vision purchases. Even if you have an HSA, you should be eligible to put money into a [Limited Purpose FSA (LPFSA)](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/l/limited-purpose-flexible-spending-arrangement-lpfsa.asp) using pre-tax dollars. It's also very convenient to use because most FSA plans provide a debit card.

### Downsides

FSA is a use-it-or-lose-it benefit, similar to vision insurance. Remember to use up all the funds (or enough to reach the maximum rollover amount, if it has this feature) [before the end of the year (or end of grace period)](https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/111314/how-does-grace-period-work-my-flexible-spending-account-fsa.asp).

### Savings Calculation

Depending on your overall effective marginal tax rate (local + state + federal income tax rate), you could save between 0-50% or even more if your local and state have high income tax rates.

For example, if you are in the 22% federal tax bracket, you live in a locality/state that taxes you 4% overall, and the FICA tax rate is 7.65%, then *you would be saving 33.65%*.

Note, this is combinable with most of the options below.

## Level Two - The "Costco" Discount

```
Level Stats
Savings:                ~35.4% Discount (Lower if no club membership)
Usage Type:             Online or In-Store
```

Many non-big-box optometrists will price match Costco or Sam's Club prices, even if they don't advertise it. They most likely won't even ask you for proof that you have a membership. Although they might not have the exact rebates that Costco advertises, they might offer comparable rebates of their own. This is a quick and easy way to reduce the bill, so make sure you check the pricing from your nearest wholesale club, so you can compare their price match.

### Downsides

It is possible they don't price match, then my recommended approach would be to make sure they print out your prescription so that you can directly buy from your wholesale club. If you don't have a membership, it'll cost you around $50-65 for a membership, so you might still save a little, but it might not be worth the inconvenience.

<Image src={costcoQuote} alt="Costco Quote" width="400" class="inline"/> <Image src={costcoRebate} alt="Costco Rebate" width="326" class="inline"/>

### Savings Calculation

Costco is currently selling this product for $38.87 a box with a $20 mail-in rebate if you buy 4 boxes ($155.48 - $20 = $135.48 for a year). Given you already have a membership, that's a $73.16 savings or 35.4% discount. Nearly free with vision insurance.

## Level Three - Out-Of-Network and Online

```
Level Stats
Savings:                ~33.2% Discount
Usage Type:             Online
```

If you look at your vision insurance, you'll notice that you have an in-network and an out-of-network benefit for contact lenses. The out-of-benefit is usually a reimbursement but for a lower amount ($105 in my case). But the thing is, you can usually find an online retailer that has better pricing than even Costco.

For instance, this is from [ContactsDirect.com](https://www.contactsdirect.com/) and after all the discounts, it ends up being ~$29.79 per box ($119.17). That's $102.79 cheaper than LensCrafters and $16.31 cheaper than Costco. In this case though, Costco is cheaper since most vision insurance plans consider Costco an in-network provider, but if you don't already have a Costco membership, then this option would be cheaper.

This also changes if your contacts are more expensive. For instance, the toric version of these lenses have a price difference of $49.59, in which case, this option is cheaper than Costco.

[OptiContacts](https://www.opticontacts.com/) is an even cheaper option, but you do have to make sure you aren't being bait and switched as you can see in this quote (see screenshot below). A lot of online stores have these extremely high processing fees.

**Pro-Tip:** - Check Rakuten for any cashback for the online site you are using. For instance, currently, [Rakuten has 4% cashback on ContactsDirect.com](www.rakuten.com/r/ONFIRE15?eeid=28187).

<Image src={optiContacts} alt="OptiContacts Quote"/>

### Downsides

One, it does require some research to find the best online pricing, especially with the bait-and-switch tactic mentioned above. Some sites offer different pricing through different links or offer hidden promo codes, so this research could be daunting. To get you started, here are a few online sites to compare against:

| Website | Rakuten? |
|---|---|
| [ContactsDirect.com](https://www.contactsdirect.com/) | Yes |
| [OptiContacts](https://www.opticontacts.com/) | No |
| [EZContacts](https://www.ezcontacts.com/) | Yes |
| [Contact Lens King](https://www.contactlensking.com/) | No |
| [Kits](https://www.kits.com/) | Yes |
| [WebEyeCare](https://webeyecare.com/) | Yes |
| [1-800-Contacts](https://www.1800contacts.com/) | Yes |

**Pro-Tip:** 1-800-Contacts [price matches their competitors, including rebates](https://www.1800contacts.com/best-price-guarantee), which is great because they do have a [torn lense guarantee](https://www.1800contacts.com/best-price-guarantee). It's also possible they might have a better Rakuten cashback than other online competitors.

Two, it does require some time to ship the contacts to you. This only affects you if you have contact lenses that are in-stock most of the time. If you have toric lenses like me, some optimetrists have to special order them anyways.

Lastly, you do have to fill out a reimbursement form from your vision insurance. So similar risks to rebates, where reimbursements can be rejected. I've never had an issue with reimbursements, but there is a chance you'll have to go through some hoops. This also means you will have to pay the full cost upfront while you wait for your reimbursement, which could take a couple of weeks. This could be an advantage because you gain credit card points, but if you are strapped for cash, this could be a significant downside.

### Gotchas

It is possible the online site does support your vision insurance. If so, it means you most likely will not be able to go the out-of-network path. It's possible the in-network price after vision insurance could be cheaper than the out-of-network price after reimbursement, but I have found this is only the case if there isn't some sale with a promo code happening at the time, since you can't use most promo codes with vision insurance (but there are exceptions).

For example, my latest contact lense purchase was a few days ago on Contacts Direct. At first, I was trying the out-of-network path using the CYBER20 promo code for 20% off and the instant discount of $20 if you purchase an annual supply. I also had an Amex credit card offer for $20 off $100 purchase and the Rakuten 15% cashback. So the total after $105 reimbursement and discounts/offers/cashback would have been $19.81. What a steal!

But then I realized that Contacts Direct supported my vision insurance, so I tried the in-network path. The total after $130 insurance, an EYEMED2025 10% off promo code that could be used with vision insurance, and a 15% Rakuten cashback ended up being $56.23, which was ~$35 more than the out-of-network path.

In the end, I did go down this path with Contacts Direct, since I couldn't find a signiificantly better price that was worth the out-of-network hassle. To sweeten the deal, I ended up buying a few bottles of contact lense solution to bring my total to ~$100, so I could use my Amex $20 off $100 offer, which made the bottles more than half off. But it was a lessons learned to check what vision insurance these online sites support first.

### Savings Calculation

Total cost = $119.17 (ContactsDirect) * (0.96 for [Rakuten cashback](www.rakuten.com/r/ONFIRE15?eeid=28187)) + ~$25 (difference between in-network and out-of-network discount)= $139.40

Savings = $208.64 - $139.4 = $69.24 or 33.2% discount
